SETUP_GUIDE.md, before:

# Setup Guide

After running `./scripts/setup-repo.sh`, follow these steps to complete your repository setup.

---

## Step 1: Create GitHub Environments

GitHub Environments let you configure different settings for dev, staging, and production deployments.

### How to create environments:

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** (tab at the top)
3. In the left sidebar, click **Environments**
4. Click **New environment**
5. Create these three environments (one at a time):
   - `development`
   - `staging`
   - `production`

### Configure production protection (recommended):

1. After creating the `production` environment, click on it
2. Check **Required reviewers**
3. Add yourself (or your team) as a reviewer
4. Click **Save protection rules**

This ensures someone must approve before deploying to production.

---

## Step 2: Add Secrets

Secrets store sensitive values like passwords and API keys. The pipeline needs different secrets depending on what you're deploying.

### How to add secrets:

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** (tab at the top)
3. In the left sidebar, click **Environments**
4. Click on the environment you want to add secrets to (e.g., `development`)
5. Scroll down to **Environment secrets**
6. Click **Add environment secret**
7. Enter the name and value
8. Click **Add secret**

Repeat for each environment (`development`, `staging`, `production`).

**Note:** Enter secrets as plain text. GitHub encrypts them automatically. The only exception is `KUBECONFIG` which should be base64-encoded (see below) because it's a multi-line file.

---

## Step 3: Which Secrets Do You Need?

You only need to configure secrets for the deployment types you're using. Skip sections that don't apply to you.

### Option A: Kubernetes Deployments

If you're deploying containers to Kubernetes clusters:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description | Format |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `DEV_KUBECONFIG` | development | Kubernetes config for dev cluster | base64-encoded |
| `STAGING_KUBECONFIG` | staging | Kubernetes config for staging cluster | base64-encoded |
| `PROD_KUBECONFIG` | production | Kubernetes config for prod cluster | base64-encoded |

**Getting your kubeconfig:**

```bash
# For a local cluster (minikube, kind, docker-desktop)
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# For cloud providers, use their CLI:
# AWS EKS
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name my-cluster --region us-east-1
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# Google GKE
gcloud container clusters get-credentials my-cluster --zone us-central1-a
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# Azure AKS
az aks get-credentials --resource-group mygroup --name my-cluster
cat ~/.kube/config | base64
```

Copy the base64 output and paste it as the secret value.

### Option B: Server Deployments (SSH/rsync)

If you're deploying to traditional servers via SSH:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description | Format |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `DEV_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | development | SSH private key (contents of `~/.ssh/id_ed25519`) | plain text |
| `DEV_SSH_USER` | development | SSH username (e.g., `deploy`) | plain text |
| `STAGING_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | staging | SSH private key for staging | plain text |
| `STAGING_SSH_USER` | staging | SSH username | plain text |
| `PROD_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | production | SSH private key for production | plain text |
| `PROD_SSH_USER` | production | SSH username | plain text |

**Setting up SSH keys:**

```bash
# Generate a new key pair for deployments (recommended)
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "deploy@github-actions" -f ~/.ssh/deploy_key

# Copy the public key to your server
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/deploy_key.pub user@your-server.com

# The secret value is the PRIVATE key:
cat ~/.ssh/deploy_key
```

### Option C: Database Migrations (Managed DB like RDS/Cloud SQL)

If you're running Flyway migrations against a managed database:

| Secret Name | Environment | Example |
|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `DEV_DATABASE_URL` | development | `jdbc:mysql://db.dev.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `DEV_DATABASE_USER` | development | `app_user` |
| `DEV_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | development | (your password) |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_URL` | staging | `jdbc:mysql://db.staging.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_USER` | staging | `app_user` |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | staging | (your password) |
| `PROD_DATABASE_URL` | production | `jdbc:mysql://db.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `PROD_DATABASE_USER` | production | `app_user` |
| `PROD_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | production | (your password) |

All database secrets are plain text.

### Application Secrets

These are used by your applications at runtime:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| `DEV_JWT_SECRET` | development | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `STAGING_JWT_SECRET` | staging | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `PROD_JWT_SECRET` | production | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `DEV_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | development | MySQL password (for in-cluster MySQL) |
| `STAGING_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | staging | MySQL password |
| `PROD_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | production | MySQL password |

**Generating secure secrets:**

```bash
# Generate a random 32-character secret
openssl rand -base64 32
```

---

## Step 4: Start Developing

Now you're ready to create your first feature:

```bash
# Switch to the develop branch
git checkout develop

# Create a feature branch
git checkout -b feature/my-service/my-feature

# Make your changes...

# Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add my feature"
git push -u origin feature/my-service/my-feature
```

Then go to GitHub and create a Pull Request targeting `develop`.

---

## Quick Reference: Environment Setup Checklist

### Minimum Setup (just to get pipelines running):

- [ ] Create `development` environment
- [ ] Create `staging` environment
- [ ] Create `production` environment with required reviewers
- [ ] Add secrets for your deployment type (see Step 3)

### Full Setup:

- [ ] All environments created
- [ ] Production has required reviewers enabled
- [ ] Kubeconfig secrets (if using Kubernetes)
- [ ] SSH secrets (if using server deployments)
- [ ] Database secrets (if using managed databases)
- [ ] Application secrets (JWT, passwords, etc.)

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Error: Resource not accessible by integration"

Your GitHub token doesn't have permission to create environments. Go to Settings → Actions → General → Workflow permissions and select "Read and write permissions".

### "Error: Context 'production' not found"

The `production` environment doesn't exist. Create it in Settings → Environments.

### "Error: Kubeconfig is invalid"

Make sure you base64-encoded your kubeconfig:
```bash
cat ~/.kube/config | base64 -w 0  # Linux
cat ~/.kube/config | base64       # macOS
```

### Pipeline not triggering

- Check that you're pushing to the correct branch (`develop`, `staging`, or `main`)
- Check Settings → Actions to ensure Actions are enabled
- Check the Actions tab for any failed runs with error details

---

## Need Help?

- Check the [README.md](README.md) for pipeline and branching documentation
- Open an issue if you're stuck

Commit message:

docs: warn against forking, recommend template instead
Forking maintains a link to the upstream repo, causing PRs to
accidentally target the original repository instead of the user's
own copy. Updated docs to recommend "Use this template" button
or manual clone approach.

Co-Authored-By: Claudia <claudia@tritonagency.ai>

SETUP_GUIDE.md, after:

# Setup Guide

> **Important**: Make sure you used "Use this template" or manually cloned the repo (see README). Do NOT use GitHub's "Fork" button—forks maintain a link to the original repo and your PRs will accidentally be sent there.

After running `./scripts/setup-repo.sh`, follow these steps to complete your repository setup.

---

## Step 1: Create GitHub Environments

GitHub Environments let you configure different settings for dev, staging, and production deployments.

### How to create environments:

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** (tab at the top)
3. In the left sidebar, click **Environments**
4. Click **New environment**
5. Create these three environments (one at a time):
   - `development`
   - `staging`
   - `production`

### Configure production protection (recommended):

1. After creating the `production` environment, click on it
2. Check **Required reviewers**
3. Add yourself (or your team) as a reviewer
4. Click **Save protection rules**

This ensures someone must approve before deploying to production.

---

## Step 2: Add Secrets

Secrets store sensitive values like passwords and API keys. The pipeline needs different secrets depending on what you're deploying.

### How to add secrets:

1. Go to your repository on GitHub
2. Click **Settings** (tab at the top)
3. In the left sidebar, click **Environments**
4. Click on the environment you want to add secrets to (e.g., `development`)
5. Scroll down to **Environment secrets**
6. Click **Add environment secret**
7. Enter the name and value
8. Click **Add secret**

Repeat for each environment (`development`, `staging`, `production`).

**Note:** Enter secrets as plain text. GitHub encrypts them automatically. The only exception is `KUBECONFIG` which should be base64-encoded (see below) because it's a multi-line file.

---

## Step 3: Which Secrets Do You Need?

You only need to configure secrets for the deployment types you're using. Skip sections that don't apply to you.

### Option A: Kubernetes Deployments

If you're deploying containers to Kubernetes clusters:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description | Format |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `DEV_KUBECONFIG` | development | Kubernetes config for dev cluster | base64-encoded |
| `STAGING_KUBECONFIG` | staging | Kubernetes config for staging cluster | base64-encoded |
| `PROD_KUBECONFIG` | production | Kubernetes config for prod cluster | base64-encoded |

**Getting your kubeconfig:**

```bash
# For a local cluster (minikube, kind, docker-desktop)
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# For cloud providers, use their CLI:
# AWS EKS
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name my-cluster --region us-east-1
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# Google GKE
gcloud container clusters get-credentials my-cluster --zone us-central1-a
cat ~/.kube/config | base64

# Azure AKS
az aks get-credentials --resource-group mygroup --name my-cluster
cat ~/.kube/config | base64
```

Copy the base64 output and paste it as the secret value.

### Option B: Server Deployments (SSH/rsync)

If you're deploying to traditional servers via SSH:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description | Format |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `DEV_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | development | SSH private key (contents of `~/.ssh/id_ed25519`) | plain text |
| `DEV_SSH_USER` | development | SSH username (e.g., `deploy`) | plain text |
| `STAGING_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | staging | SSH private key for staging | plain text |
| `STAGING_SSH_USER` | staging | SSH username | plain text |
| `PROD_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | production | SSH private key for production | plain text |
| `PROD_SSH_USER` | production | SSH username | plain text |

**Setting up SSH keys:**

```bash
# Generate a new key pair for deployments (recommended)
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "deploy@github-actions" -f ~/.ssh/deploy_key

# Copy the public key to your server
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/deploy_key.pub user@your-server.com

# The secret value is the PRIVATE key:
cat ~/.ssh/deploy_key
```

### Option C: Database Migrations (Managed DB like RDS/Cloud SQL)

If you're running Flyway migrations against a managed database:

| Secret Name | Environment | Example |
|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `DEV_DATABASE_URL` | development | `jdbc:mysql://db.dev.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `DEV_DATABASE_USER` | development | `app_user` |
| `DEV_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | development | (your password) |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_URL` | staging | `jdbc:mysql://db.staging.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_USER` | staging | `app_user` |
| `STAGING_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | staging | (your password) |
| `PROD_DATABASE_URL` | production | `jdbc:mysql://db.example.com:3306/myapp` |
| `PROD_DATABASE_USER` | production | `app_user` |
| `PROD_DATABASE_PASSWORD` | production | (your password) |

All database secrets are plain text.

### Application Secrets

These are used by your applications at runtime:

| Secret Name | Environment | Description |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|
| `DEV_JWT_SECRET` | development | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `STAGING_JWT_SECRET` | staging | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `PROD_JWT_SECRET` | production | Secret for signing JWTs |
| `DEV_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | development | MySQL password (for in-cluster MySQL) |
| `STAGING_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | staging | MySQL password |
| `PROD_MYSQL_PASSWORD` | production | MySQL password |

**Generating secure secrets:**

```bash
# Generate a random 32-character secret
openssl rand -base64 32
```

---

## Step 4: Start Developing

Now you're ready to create your first feature:

```bash
# Switch to the develop branch
git checkout develop

# Create a feature branch
git checkout -b feature/my-service/my-feature

# Make your changes...

# Commit and push
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add my feature"
git push -u origin feature/my-service/my-feature
```

Then go to GitHub and create a Pull Request targeting `develop`.

---

## Quick Reference: Environment Setup Checklist

### Minimum Setup (just to get pipelines running):

- [ ] Create `development` environment
- [ ] Create `staging` environment
- [ ] Create `production` environment with required reviewers
- [ ] Add secrets for your deployment type (see Step 3)

### Full Setup:

- [ ] All environments created
- [ ] Production has required reviewers enabled
- [ ] Kubeconfig secrets (if using Kubernetes)
- [ ] SSH secrets (if using server deployments)
- [ ] Database secrets (if using managed databases)
- [ ] Application secrets (JWT, passwords, etc.)

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Error: Resource not accessible by integration"

Your GitHub token doesn't have permission to create environments. Go to Settings → Actions → General → Workflow permissions and select "Read and write permissions".

### "Error: Context 'production' not found"

The `production` environment doesn't exist. Create it in Settings → Environments.

### "Error: Kubeconfig is invalid"

Make sure you base64-encoded your kubeconfig:
```bash
cat ~/.kube/config | base64 -w 0  # Linux
cat ~/.kube/config | base64       # macOS
```

### Pipeline not triggering

- Check that you're pushing to the correct branch (`develop`, `staging`, or `main`)
- Check Settings → Actions to ensure Actions are enabled
- Check the Actions tab for any failed runs with error details

---

## Need Help?

- Check the [README.md](README.md) for pipeline and branching documentation
- Open an issue if you're stuck
